README.md, before:

# edgetx-widgets
A collection of reusable widgets for EdgeTX Colour Screen

# EdgeTX Widgets Installation Guide

EdgeTX widgets enhance the functionality of your transmitter, allowing you to customize your interface and add valuable features. Follow this guide to install and set up widgets on your EdgeTX-compatible device.

## Prerequisites

1. **EdgeTX Firmware**: Ensure your transmitter is running EdgeTX firmware.
   - [Download EdgeTX](https://www.edgetx.org/)
   - **Compatibility**: These widgets have only been tested with EdgeTX 2.10.5 (and 2.11.1).
2. **SD Card Setup**:
   - Verify that your SD card has the correct file structure for EdgeTX.
   - Use the [EdgeTX Companion](https://www.edgetx.org/tools) to update your SD card contents, if necessary.

## Installation Steps

### 1. Download the Widgets
1. The available widgets are: **BattWidget**, **Dashboard**, **GPSWidget**, **RXWidget**, and **SimWidget**.
2. Download the widget folders you need.
3. **IMPORTANT**: Also download the **common** folder, which contains shared utilities required by all widgets.

### 2. Copy Folders to the SD Card
1. Insert the SD card from your transmitter into your computer.
2. Navigate to the `/WIDGETS/` directory on the SD card.
3. Copy the widget folders you need (e.g., `BattWidget`, `Dashboard`, etc.).
4. **REQUIRED**: Copy the **common** folder to `/WIDGETS/common/`. This folder must be present for any widget to function properly.

### 3. Bind a Drone and Discover Sensors
1. Before setting up all the widgets, bind a drone (preferably with GPS) to your transmitter.
2. Power on the drone and the transmitter.
3. Navigate to the **Model Settings** on your transmitter.
4. Go to the **Telemetry** page.
5. Select **Discover new sensors** and wait for the transmitter to detect all available sensors from the drone.

### 4. Load the Widget on the Transmitter
1. Reinsert the SD card into your transmitter.
2. Power on the transmitter and access the **Model Settings** or **Global Settings** (depending on the widget type).
3. Navigate to the **Widgets Setup** page:
   - Long press the `Page` button until you see the screen layout setup.
4. Select a screen or add a new one.
5. Choose the widget slot you want to use and assign the newly installed widget.

### 5. Configure the Widget
1. The widgets locations are fixed right now.
2. ## View Layout
The widgets are arranged on the transmitter’s screen using this layout and screen configuration.
Below is an example layout:

![View Layout Example](/docs/img/screen_config.jpeg)



### 6. Test the Widget
- Exit the configuration menu and ensure the widget displays or functions as expected.

## Configuring Models with Different Layouts

### Dashboard Widget (Full-Screen Option)

The **Dashboard** widget provides a comprehensive, full-screen view combining multiple telemetry elements:
- Model name and TX battery status
- Connection status and link quality
- RX battery with cell count detection
- GPS satellite count and coordinates
- Flight mode, RF mode, power, current, capacity, RSSI, antenna
- Date/time with configurable 12/24-hour format
- Up to 3 timers
- Stick positions visualization
- EdgeTX version display

This widget is ideal for users who want all critical information in one place without managing multiple widgets.

### ELRS Model

### Widget Locations
Place the widgets in the order specified on the next image. Location details:

![Widget Locations](/docs/img/widget_layout.jpg)

For the ELRS Receiver model, configure the following widgets:

1. **BattWidget**
2. **RXWidget**
3. **GPSWidget**

### Simulator Model
For the Simulator model, configure the following widget:

### Widget Locations
Place the widget in the order specified on the next image. Location details:

![Widget Locations](/docs/img/widget_layout_sim.jpg)

1. **SimWidget** - Unified widget combining model info, battery, date/time, timers, and stick visualization

### Steps to Configure a New Model

1. **Create a New Model**:
   - Navigate to the **Model Settings** on your transmitter.
   - Select **Create New Model** and follow the prompts to set up the new model.

2. **Configure the Layout**:
   - Access the **Widgets Setup** page for the new model.
   - Long press the `Page` button until you see the screen layout setup.
   - Select a screen or add a new one.
   - Choose the widget slots you want to use and assign the appropriate widgets for the model (ELRS or Simulator).

3. **Assign Widgets**:
   - For each widget slot, select the widget you want to assign (e.g., `ModelWidget`, `ClockWidget`, `BattWidget`, `RXWidget`, `GPSWidget` for ELRS model or `SimModel`, `SimStickLayout` for Simulator model).
   - Configure the widget options as needed.Widge

4. **Save and Test**:
   - Exit the configuration menu and ensure the widgets display or function as expected.
   - Make any necessary adjustments to the layout or widget options.

## Known Issues
- **BetaFPV Flight Controllers**: Some BetaFPV flight controllers (e.g., Air 65 or Air 75) report battery 0V RxBT. This may cause the voltage to not display properly. Ensure that if a metric is not displayed, it appears in the telemetry; otherwise, it will not be shown.

## Troubleshooting
- **Widget Not Showing Up**: Ensure the widget folder is placed correctly under `/WIDGETS/` and contains all required files.
- **SD Card Issues**: Verify the card is formatted correctly (e.g., FAT32).
- **Compatibility**: Ensure the widget is compatible with your EdgeTX version.
- **Switching Drones**: Every time you switch drones without restarting the radio transmitter, make sure you reset the telemetry. To reset telemetry:
  1. Navigate to the **Model Settings** on your transmitter.
  2. Go to the **Telemetry** page.
  3. Select **Reset telemetry**.

## Uninstallation
1. Navigate to your SD card's `/WIDGETS/` directory.
2. Delete the folders corresponding to the widget you wish to remove.

## Testing

This project includes comprehensive testing capabilities that allow you to test widgets without connecting to an actual radio.

### Running Tests

Windows:
```batch
tests\run_tests.bat
```

Linux/Mac:
```bash
./tests/run_tests.sh
```

### Test Documentation

- [tests/README.md](tests/README.md) - Complete testing guide
- [docs/TESTING.md](docs/TESTING.md) - Detailed testing scenarios
- [docs/TELEMETRY_GUIDE.md](docs/TELEMETRY_GUIDE.md) - Telemetry variable reference
- [docs/COMPANION_SIMULATOR_GUIDE.md](docs/COMPANION_SIMULATOR_GUIDE.md) - Companion simulator integration

### Project Structure

```
edgetx-widgets/
├── widgets/           # Widget implementations
│   ├── BattWidget/
│   ├── ClockWidget/
│   ├── common/        # Shared utilities (REQUIRED)
│   ├── Dashboard/
│   ├── GPSWidget/
│   ├── ModelWidget/
│   ├── RXWidget/
│   └── SimWidget/
├── tests/             # Test suite
│   ├── lua/          # Widget test files
│   └── utils/        # Testing utilities (telemetry simulator)
└── docs/             # Documentation
```

## Additional Resources
- [EdgeTX Documentation](https://manual.edgetx.org)
- [EdgeTX GitHub](https://github.com/EdgeTX)

Commit message:

Update README to clarify common folder includes icons

README.md, after:

# edgetx-widgets
A collection of reusable widgets for EdgeTX Colour Screen

# EdgeTX Widgets Installation Guide

EdgeTX widgets enhance the functionality of your transmitter, allowing you to customize your interface and add valuable features. Follow this guide to install and set up widgets on your EdgeTX-compatible device.

## Prerequisites

1. **EdgeTX Firmware**: Ensure your transmitter is running EdgeTX firmware.
   - [Download EdgeTX](https://www.edgetx.org/)
   - **Compatibility**: These widgets have only been tested with EdgeTX 2.10.5 (and 2.11.1).
2. **SD Card Setup**:
   - Verify that your SD card has the correct file structure for EdgeTX.
   - Use the [EdgeTX Companion](https://www.edgetx.org/tools) to update your SD card contents, if necessary.

## Installation Steps

### 1. Download the Widgets
1. The available widgets are: **BattWidget**, **Dashboard**, **GPSWidget**, **RXWidget**, and **SimWidget**.
2. Download the widget folders you need.
3. **IMPORTANT**: Also download the **common** folder, which contains:
   - Shared utilities (`utils.lua`) required by all widgets
   - Icon assets (`icons/` folder) used by the widgets

### 2. Copy Folders to the SD Card
1. Insert the SD card from your transmitter into your computer.
2. Navigate to the `/WIDGETS/` directory on the SD card.
3. Copy the widget folders you need (e.g., `BattWidget`, `Dashboard`, etc.).
4. **REQUIRED**: Copy the **common** folder to `/WIDGETS/common/`. This folder must be present with both:
   - `utils.lua` - Shared utility functions
   - `icons/` - Icon assets (battery, connection, GPS satellite icons)

### 3. Bind a Drone and Discover Sensors
1. Before setting up all the widgets, bind a drone (preferably with GPS) to your transmitter.
2. Power on the drone and the transmitter.
3. Navigate to the **Model Settings** on your transmitter.
4. Go to the **Telemetry** page.
5. Select **Discover new sensors** and wait for the transmitter to detect all available sensors from the drone.

### 4. Load the Widget on the Transmitter
1. Reinsert the SD card into your transmitter.
2. Power on the transmitter and access the **Model Settings** or **Global Settings** (depending on the widget type).
3. Navigate to the **Widgets Setup** page:
   - Long press the `Page` button until you see the screen layout setup.
4. Select a screen or add a new one.
5. Choose the widget slot you want to use and assign the newly installed widget.

### 5. Configure the Widget
1. The widgets locations are fixed right now.
2. ## View Layout
The widgets are arranged on the transmitter’s screen using this layout and screen configuration.
Below is an example layout:

![View Layout Example](/docs/img/screen_config.jpeg)



### 6. Test the Widget
- Exit the configuration menu and ensure the widget displays or functions as expected.

## Configuring Models with Different Layouts

### Dashboard Widget (Full-Screen Option)

The **Dashboard** widget provides a comprehensive, full-screen view combining multiple telemetry elements:
- Model name and TX battery status
- Connection status and link quality
- RX battery with cell count detection
- GPS satellite count and coordinates
- Flight mode, RF mode, power, current, capacity, RSSI, antenna
- Date/time with configurable 12/24-hour format
- Up to 3 timers
- Stick positions visualization
- EdgeTX version display

This widget is ideal for users who want all critical information in one place without managing multiple widgets.

### ELRS Model

### Widget Locations
Place the widgets in the order specified on the next image. Location details:

![Widget Locations](/docs/img/widget_layout.jpg)

For the ELRS Receiver model, configure the following widgets:

1. **BattWidget**
2. **RXWidget**
3. **GPSWidget**

### Simulator Model
For the Simulator model, configure the following widget:

### Widget Locations
Place the widget in the order specified on the next image. Location details:

![Widget Locations](/docs/img/widget_layout_sim.jpg)

1. **SimWidget** - Unified widget combining model info, battery, date/time, timers, and stick visualization

### Steps to Configure a New Model

1. **Create a New Model**:
   - Navigate to the **Model Settings** on your transmitter.
   - Select **Create New Model** and follow the prompts to set up the new model.

2. **Configure the Layout**:
   - Access the **Widgets Setup** page for the new model.
   - Long press the `Page` button until you see the screen layout setup.
   - Select a screen or add a new one.
   - Choose the widget slots you want to use and assign the appropriate widgets for the model (ELRS or Simulator).

3. **Assign Widgets**:
   - For each widget slot, select the widget you want to assign (e.g., `ModelWidget`, `ClockWidget`, `BattWidget`, `RXWidget`, `GPSWidget` for ELRS model or `SimModel`, `SimStickLayout` for Simulator model).
   - Configure the widget options as needed.Widge

4. **Save and Test**:
   - Exit the configuration menu and ensure the widgets display or function as expected.
   - Make any necessary adjustments to the layout or widget options.

## Known Issues
- **BetaFPV Flight Controllers**: Some BetaFPV flight controllers (e.g., Air 65 or Air 75) report battery 0V RxBT. This may cause the voltage to not display properly. Ensure that if a metric is not displayed, it appears in the telemetry; otherwise, it will not be shown.

## Troubleshooting
- **Widget Not Showing Up**: Ensure the widget folder is placed correctly under `/WIDGETS/` and contains all required files.
- **SD Card Issues**: Verify the card is formatted correctly (e.g., FAT32).
- **Compatibility**: Ensure the widget is compatible with your EdgeTX version.
- **Switching Drones**: Every time you switch drones without restarting the radio transmitter, make sure you reset the telemetry. To reset telemetry:
  1. Navigate to the **Model Settings** on your transmitter.
  2. Go to the **Telemetry** page.
  3. Select **Reset telemetry**.

## Uninstallation
1. Navigate to your SD card's `/WIDGETS/` directory.
2. Delete the folders corresponding to the widget you wish to remove.

## Testing

This project includes comprehensive testing capabilities that allow you to test widgets without connecting to an actual radio.

### Running Tests

Windows:
```batch
tests\run_tests.bat
```

Linux/Mac:
```bash
./tests/run_tests.sh
```

### Test Documentation

- [tests/README.md](tests/README.md) - Complete testing guide
- [docs/TESTING.md](docs/TESTING.md) - Detailed testing scenarios
- [docs/TELEMETRY_GUIDE.md](docs/TELEMETRY_GUIDE.md) - Telemetry variable reference
- [docs/COMPANION_SIMULATOR_GUIDE.md](docs/COMPANION_SIMULATOR_GUIDE.md) - Companion simulator integration

### Project Structure

```
edgetx-widgets/
├── widgets/           # Widget implementations
│   ├── BattWidget/
│   ├── ClockWidget/
│   ├── common/        # Shared utilities (REQUIRED)
│   ├── Dashboard/
│   ├── GPSWidget/
│   ├── ModelWidget/
│   ├── RXWidget/
│   └── SimWidget/
├── tests/             # Test suite
│   ├── lua/          # Widget test files
│   └── utils/        # Testing utilities (telemetry simulator)
└── docs/             # Documentation
```

## Additional Resources
- [EdgeTX Documentation](https://manual.edgetx.org)
- [EdgeTX GitHub](https://github.com/EdgeTX)
